Before we get too heavy into mutations,
let's write a couple more query tests
so we can feel comfortable with this whole writing mocks.
We're going to test the PleaseSignIn component.
It's pretty simple: it queries a current user.
If the user is not signed in, it will ask them
to sign in, render out the Signin;
otherwise, it will return the children,
and you could also expand this component
to take an array of permissions as well,
but we haven't done that here.
So we're going to create a new file
in our test folder called PleaseSignIn.test.js,
and I want you to go to your SingleItem.test.js
and just pull all the imports from that
and paste them into here, so we got mount, toJSON, wait,
we are going to import, not a SingleItem,
but we are going to be importing the PleaseSignIn,
from the PleaseSignIn component.
We also want to import the
CURRENT_USER_QUERY from our user component.
Let's just triple check we exported that User.js.
There we go, we exported it just fine.
We have our MockedProvider, and then we have our fakeItem.
I don't think we need that, let's open up our testUtils.
I believe we need a fake user to be pulled in,
so let's grab fakeUser.
Awesome, now let's make some mocks first.
In the last example, I did my mocks right inside
of the test; however, if these mocks are gonna be used
more than once, you can describe them outside your test,
which will make them a little bit more reusable,
so let's do that.
Say const notSignedInMocks is equal to an array of mocks,
and the first mock is going to be an object with a request.
That is going to be query of the CURRENT_USER_QUERY
and then the result is going to be data,
and then that result is going to have me is equal to null
'cause that's not signed in, right?
Then we'll make another mock for the signed in mocks,
so signedInMocks
equals an array.
Yep, a request, actually we can just pop this,
let's just grab that, paste it in,
and then the me is just going to be a fakeUser.
Now we can go ahead and write our test so
describe('<PleaseSignIn/>'),
and we'll do our first test:
it('renders the sign in dialog
to logged out users',
make that async,
We'll make our wrapper, and we'll mount.
Inside of that we need our MockedProvider.
The mocks that we pass to that
are the notSignedInMocks, and then inside of that
we'll have our PleaseSignIn component.
Let's just go ahead and console.log
wrapper.debug.
We get loading here, so if you wanted to
you could test that it shows loading,
but we don't really care so we'll just
await wait wrapper.update, and now debug.
Bam, there we get, there's our sign in.
Looks like it's working just fine.
So let's go ahead and write some tests
that will assert that this looks fine.
Expect that the wrapper.text
toContain
('Please sign in
before continuing').
I think that's what we wrote.
Oh, little error here, expected.
Oh, lowercase, so I like to copy paste that.
I think there is a capital C on continuing,
but I'm just gonna paste it right in,
and it looks that test passed!
Good, we can also test that that SignIn component
is showing, so expect(wrapper.find
('SignIn').exists
.toBe(true).
Eh, that didn't work so how would I debug this?
First I'll just try to put it in its own variable,
so const SignIn is equal to wrapper.find
SignIn
and we'll console.log(SignIn.debug).
Let's see what we got here.
Gives me nothing, okay, um, it's not finding it,
so let's just do a wrapper debug then,
see what its actually called.
Oh, lowercase I, that's probably what it is.
Here we go, there's our sign in,
so this expect
SignIn
exists .toBe(true).
We can replace this with our variable that we just created.
Looks like its working!
Get rid of these console logs,
and I think that's good enough, I think our test passed.
Next one we want to: it('renders the child
component when the user is signed in').
Make that async.
We can just go ahead and grab this mount here,
paste it in, and then swap out
the mocks with the signedInMocks.
And if we do our await wait
wrapper.update
console.log(wrapper.debug).
Oh, and I guess the way that PleaseSignIn works
is that PleaseSignIn needs a child component
to actually show it, so let's make
a quick little child component here.
We'll say, const Hey is equal to
Hey!
And then we need a PleaseSignIn open close,
and we'll put a Hey tag in the middle.
So if this worked properly, we should see a paragraph
with Hey! rendering inside of the PleaseSignIn.
There it is.
And now we can run some assertions:
expect(wrapper.find)
a Hey tag .exists
.toBe(true).
Passes with flying colors!
I think we can also, let's try another one there:
expect(wrapper.contains)
a Hey tag.
Does that work, too?
Hey hey, that works as well, hey hey!
So either one, this is kinda neat because
this you're actually giving it the component itself,
this you're just using a selector,
so I think this one would probably be a little bit better
in this use case, you could use either one, though.
Both of them work pretty well.
I don't think you'd run into any hot water.
So that's PleaseSignIn, I like that one.
Let's do a couple more real quick.
Let's look at the Nav.js.
What do we gotta test about our nav?
We just want to make sure that the nav is rendering properly
when they're in a logged-in and logged-out status,
so let's go ahead and write a test for that.
Let's go into our test folder, make a new file: Nav.test.js.
we'll go ahead and grab all of the imports.
Actually, let's clean this up real quick.
The PleaseSignIn doesn't need the toJSON
and everything else is needed.
So let's copy that, go into our Nav and paste it in.
Then we need some mocks for both
being signed in and signed out,
so you could just export these and import them in,
but I'm just gonna copy paste them
so I keep this test nice and self contained,
so copy, paste it in there, and we can go ahead
and start to describe our tests.
So we'll say Nav,
we'll say it('renders a minimal nav when signed out')
const wrapper is equal to mount
MockedProvider inside of that,
We want our Nav tagged, did we import that?
Don't think that we did, no.
So let's just switch this PleaseSignIn to Nav,
and our MockedProvider needs some mocks,
we'll call that the notSignedInMocks.
Then we will wait,
update,
and then console.log(wrapper.debug).
Let's see what were working with here.
We've got our Nav, we have our unordered list,
and inside of that you've got two links,
one to items and one to signup.
So it's a couple things we could test here.
We could test that there are two children,
we could test that the links are shop and sign in,
we could test that they go to the right place,
but I think a snapshot is probably the best use case in here
because we can cover all of that in just a single look.
So what I'm gonna do is open up our Nav.js,
and let's find the actual piece that we're looking to test,
and that's this right here, NavStyles is on our list,
and we'll put a data-test on there,
and we'll call that our nav.
Then what we can do in here is find that,
so const nav is equal to wrapper.find
data-test is equal to nav,
and then let's console.log the nav.debug,
see if were working with the right piece.
There we go, there's our Nav, everything is in there,
and we can just do a quick little snapshot,
so expect(toJSON(nav))
.toMatchSnapshot.
Bah, not working, toJSON is not defined.
Oh, I didn't import it.
It's gotta go up here import toJSON from 'enzyme-to-json'.
Passes with flying colors.
We should check our test,
Nav.test.js.snap,
and then we say renders a minimal nav when signed out.
We see our unordered list, we see
our two links showing up there, good.
Now we'll do the opposite, which is
it('renders full nav when signed in').
We can go ahead and just take this mount,
pass it the signedInMocks,
do our whole wait and update dance,
find the wrapper.
This is actually almost exactly the same.
We could probably write some abstractions on here,
and then let's go ahead and console.log(nav.debug).
Bum, there it is.
We see items, sells, orders, me,
there's a sign out button in there,
and then there is a cart that has zero items inside of it.
So that looking good, we can basically
just do the same thing where we can expect the nav
to match the snapshot that we have there,
and those pass as well.
One other thing you could do here is
you could modify this to show a user with items in the cart.
That would be something you could do.
Let's do that real quick:
it('renders the amount of items in the cart'),
and this is a little bit unnecessary
because we've already written a test for cart count
and we know that that works, but just to show you
how you could modify the data here to do that,
let's go ahead and just take the whole thing, actually.
And then I am just gonna make a signedInMocksWithCartItems.
We'll go up here and duplicate this,
signedInMocksWithCartItems,
and then the me is going to be an object,
and we can spread the fakeUser into it so we can copy it,
which is going to give us,
let's look at our testUtils real quick,
it's gonna give us somebody with an empty cart,
but what we can do is we can override that cart
with a whole bunch of cart items,
and, in this case, I think we can just
give ourselves empty objects because
it only counts the amount of items that are in the cart.
That might be wrong, but let's try.
Let's see what that looks like.
Ah, missing field typename in, oh yeah, in ID
quantity, I see,
because you can't just give it an empty thing
because it's asking for the ID
and the quantity and the item in there,
so it's gonna give us all these warnings in here.
So let's fix that, go back up to the top of our Nav.test,
and we will import the fakeCartItem.
Then we'll make a whole bunch of fakeCartItems in here.
I've also set up this fakeCartItem to take in any overrides
so that if you want to change the ID
or the quantity or the actual item itself,
you can override it and they will overlap those.
So does that fix it?
Let's update those snapshots,
take a look at our Nav snapshot,
and then look for the test that we're running here.
Renders the amount of items in the cart.
Let's find that in here, NavStyles.
Ah, you know what's happening here?
'Kay, this is too much, we're gonna fix this,
but let's just triple check that it actually works.
There we go, count, there's nine items in the cart.
That makes sense because we added three items
and, by default, there's three quantity of those
so three time three is nine, but what's going on here?
These snapshots are way too big, 1700 lines,
and the reason why we're getting this much is
because both of these tests, it renders them,
both of the signed in tests that we have here
are rendering the sign out button,
and then the sign out button in turn
has a mutation inside of it, so it's getting too big.
So we can't just snapshot the entire thing, in this case,
we have to kind of selectively pick
some of our items that we have there, so
let's remove that, and let's remove that,
and just go to your terminal and
remove those obsolete snapshots, good.
Then we have to rewrite some of this expects here:
expect
(nav.children().length).toBe(2).
Does that work?
Oh, it's seven, not two, obviously,
so there's seven items in there.
Looking good, we could also expect(nav.text)
.toContain('SignOut').
Ah, one more error we got here:
Text is only meant to be run on a single node.
Found two instead.
So this problem is coming because of styled components.
If we take a loot at our Nav.js here,
and we put this data-test, styled components
puts a NavStyles here, but then it's also gonna
duplicate that and give us an unordered list
with the same attributes on it.
So what we really need to do here
is change our selector to just a ul
and we should do that up here as well,
so it's telling us here that the snapshot has changed,
so we actually want the unordered list,
not the NavStyles, so that's fine, I'm gonna accept that.
But now we got one problem here,
we're expecting seven children and now we have six.
That makes sense because we just changed it,
six, good, that's passing.
Now what else do we want to test to make sure
that our nav is in the state that we want?
Let's just take a quick look at
what the nav looks like in this state.
Console.log(nav.debug)
and we got our links, so we wanna make sure
there's shop in there, you wanna make sure
there's sell in there, orders, account and sign out.
So you could write one of these
for every single one of those,
you could check that the href is all the same,
I'll let you kind of deal with that,
I think you get the point here.
You just want to check that there all on the page
and maybe that the links are rendering out
properly how you have them.
In here, all we want to make sure is that
the cart count contains the right amount that we have,
so if we just search for that,
we want to look for something with a class of count
and look for the text inside of it, so we'll say
const count is equal to Nav.find
.count,
let's console.log that.
Nope, we are getting multiple again.
We want to make sure that's a div with a class of count.
There it is, and we can do a little snapshot there,
so expect the count to match the snapshot, that is nine.
Let's go back into our snapshot and see, there we go,
now it's like 39 lines, not 1700 like we had before.
Let's do one more in the next video
and that is the pagination, this ones a little bit tricky
because it has disabled and enabled attributes.
Feel free to give that one a shot if you want.
Otherwise, I'll see you in the next video.